Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya Class 9th Admission
Introduction
Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV), a fully government-funded educational institution was started all over India except in the state of Tamil Nadu in respect of the National Policy of Education act of 1986. An autonomous organization under the Ministry of Education named Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti runs Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya. JNV is basically a co-educational institution and residential facilities for students are also available here. It has amazing infrastructure, premium quality faculties, and tries to provide the best possible education to its students. General admission in JNV occurs in standard VI, but in order to prevent the wastage of the vacant seats, students can also take admission in standard IX clearing an All India level Admission Test.
Important Dates
The date of the admission test for the selection of students in standard IX for the upcoming academic year is 9 April 2022, Saturday (tentatively). The test will take place at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya of respective districts or at concerned centers allotted by NVS (if any).
Note: Due to any unavoidable circumstances, if the date needs to be changed then would be informed.
Eligibility Criteria
The eligibility criteria for appearing in the All India level admission test and getting admission in Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya are as follows:
1.	Those students who are presently in standard VIII (according to the academic year 2021-2022) in any of the Government or Government recognized schools in the same district to that of the desired Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya are eligible.
2.	Candidates must pass their standard VIII annual exam for the academic session 2020-2021.
3.	Candidates must submit their application form for the selection test on or before 31 October 2021.
Age Criteria
Students who desire to take admission in Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya must not have been born before 1 May 2006 or must not have been born after 30 April 2010.
 Note: If any doubt arises, Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti has the full right to send the candidate to a Medical Board for getting confirmation about the age of the candidate.
How to apply?
One can apply for the admission test of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya for Class IX through the official website of NVS before the deadlines. Links to the websites are mentioned below:
•	www.navodaya.gov.in
•	www.nvsadmissionclassnine.in
Examination Pattern and syllabus:
Some important information regarding the examination are as follows:
1.	The duration of the admission test is 2 hours 30 minutes.
Note: If any candidate has any special medical or physical condition then that candidate would be provided with extra 50 minutes only if they produce necessary documents or certificates for that.
2.	The mode of the examination is offline.
3.	The language of the question paper would be English or Hindi as per the choice of the candidate.
4.	The examination is MCQ based and students have to fill OMR sheet to give the answer.
5.	The results will be announced as per NVS selection criteria on the same portal from where the candidate has applied.
6.	Among the vacant seats, some seats are reserved for SC and ST candidates proportionately. In order to get the privilege of the reservation quota, the candidate must produce a cast certificate.
The syllabus and examination pattern is as follows:
The questions in the selection test would be asked from Mathematics (35 marks), Hindi (15 marks), General Science (35 marks), and English (15 marks). In total, the paper would be of 100 marks and the difficulty of the test would be as per standard VIII level.



